# CS-360-Mobile-Architecture-Programming

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The application that I chose to design for this project was an inventory management application. The requirements for the application was for a user to be able to login with their secure credentials, view their inventory in a grid format, and receive SMS notifications if that permission had been granted. The user needs that this application was designed to address are the needs of a small business owner, a collector of sorts, or a warehouse manager. This application will help any of those individuals keep track of their items!

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I have several screens throughout the application. The first is the login and register screens. When opening the application, the user will be prompted for a username and password. If this is the users first time using the application, they will need to tap the register button and a dialog box will pop up requesting that they fill out the information to login. The next screen is the main screen to get to the other locations in the application. This screen includes access to the notifications section along with displaying the grid of items and a button to add items. The notification bell at the top left of the screen will take the user to a separate screen to grant permission for the SMS notifications and the check box options for when an item meets a parameter that needs a notification. Clicking the add item button will display a dialog button where the user can input the description, location, and quantity of an item. Once the item has been added, it will then show up below the header on the main screen displayed in a grid format. I think my design is successful in keeping the users in mind, because the design is simple and straightforward. 

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I used the agile method in developing this application. I had to change up the original plan to create the application based on the requirements for Project Two. I had originally planned to create on screen and functionality at a time, but Project Two forced us to create the UI portion of the project first. Being able to flex with the requirements and order of operations in a development process is important when dealing with clients as well. As developers, we need to be flexible for those last minute changes that need to be made. Time management is another skill that needs to be wisely used when developing a project. More than likely as a full time developer, we will not be working solely on one project. Learning and understanding how long it will take to complete something is a skill in itself.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
I like to build in text phrases that allow me to test when certain functions are called. I used log.d statements to catch my eye when running this program. I had trouble in several areas on this project that I couldn't understand what was not working properly. It ended up being a UI issue, but the entire time I was troubleshooting, I added these statements to make sure that specific lines of code were working as they should. Process of elimination led to the correct result finding the issue.

# Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The recyclerView in this project was entirely new to me from developing the UI to the functionality of the code itself. I spent many hours just understanding how to get this to properly work. Once I got a clear understanding of the functionality and structure of the recyclerView, I began debugging why it wasn't working. I began adding extra lines of log.d statements to make sure that my database was storing items, and when an item was called that the database was returning the item. After struggling to get the database view in Android Studio to work to view the contents of the database, I found an application that would show me the contents of a database from a saved file. I exported the database to this application and could view that all my items were being properly stored. Once I learned that was not the issue, I went back to the beginning from Project Two and the UI design. I noticed that when I selected in the code for the recyclerView that the UI kept selecting this tiny box at the top left side of the screen. I happened to see the expansion box at the bottom right corner and expanded it to reveal the recyclerView. For whatever reason, when I added the constraints for the header they were below the bottom of the screen. My add item button showed up on the screen as it should have, but since the recyclerView was supposed to be constrained between the header and the add item buttons, Android Studio sent it to its tiny corner in the top left. I took the long way to find my result for my problem, but in doing so, I was able to test many other areas of the program that needed to be tested to ensure proper functionality.

# In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I just talked about it a little with the recyclerView, but I'm going to use that specific component again to elaborate on how that demonstrates my knowledge, skills, and experience. Throughout my career, I've never been the type of person to always know the answer, but I'm good at learning quick and figuring out the answer to something. The recyclerView in this project is where I excelled at showing my ability to learn something new, go through issues and troubleshooting, and figure it out in the end. I do not consider myself an expert when it comes to programming, but this project has shown me that when I apply the skills that I have with the determination to figure it out; I accomplish the goal that I set out to achieve.
